## Fact Claims - Trustworthy AI

Ensuring the integrity and trustworthiness of our AI systems is important. 

Recently, mediocre web content has experienced exponential growth - bulk-automated by generative AI. 

Now, if our future AI are trained on this - we can expect increasingly lower-quality halluciations.

- [fact.claims website](https://fact.claims/)
- [fact.claims creator](https://fact.claims/creator/)
- [our fact.claims](./www/fact.claims)

### Key Takeaways:

- **Valid Facts:** For a fact to be considered valid, it needs to be associated with a specific action or entity and generated by a particular process.

- **Traceable Facts:** These facts can be traced back to their source through connections established during their creation or association.

- **Grounded Facts:** Grounded facts are securely stored in an unchangeable document, ensuring their reliability and verification.

- **Published Facts:** Published facts are online for reference, they need not be immutable so may be real time.

- **Notarized Facts:** Notarized facts with a provable chain of custody, with provenance traced back to a digital trustee.

### Explore Further:

- #### [Trustworthy AI](./www/content/trust/index.md)
  Learn about building AI based on facts, trust and integrity.

- #### [White Paper](./www/content/paper/index.md)
  Access our comprehensive white paper on trustworthy AI and fact claims.

- #### [RFC v0.4 DRAFT](./www/content/rfc/draft.md)
  Review the latest version of the Request for Comments (RFC) for our project.

- #### [How-to Guides](./www/content/howto/index.md)
  Dive into practical guides for managing and publishing fact claims.

- #### [Learn the basics](./www/content/howto/begin.md)
  Get started with the basics of fact claims and their importance.

- #### [Publish your first facts](./www/content/howto/fact.claims.md)
  Step-by-step instructions to publish your own fact claims.

- #### [Curating and crawling](./www/content/howto/crawling.md)
  Learn about curating and crawling data to ensure trustworthy fact claims.

- #### [Querying facts with SPARQL](./www/content/howto/sparql.md)
  Learn how to query with SPARQL to retrieve the facts you need.

- #### [SEO for AI](./www/content/howto/seo.md)
  Learn how to repurpose existing SEO rich snippets as `fact.claims`.

- #### [Worked Example](./www/fact.claims)
  Explore a worked example to better understand fact claims in action.

- #### [Live Website](https://fact.claims/)
  Visit the live website, which is the `www` folder rendered as a single page app.

